- [Instructor] Spring boot provides a large number
of production ready features, especially like actuators
which we have been working on.
I'm showing you here
an official list of spring boot actuators
that you can consume in your applications.
It's a good idea to bookmark this site for future reference
not only for the actuators
but also because there are a number of other great features
to be aware of.
The second link provides an in depth detail
about the differing web actuator endpoints available.
There is quite a bit that spring is provided here
and I recommend you take the time to review
this site as well.
Now, as you can see here in this left panel
there are many prepackaged and configured,
spring boot actuator endpoints
that you can access.
By default however,
the only one available unsecured is the health monitor.
If you want to access these other endpoints
you need to decide with your team if it's worth the risk
of exposing these unsecured
or you can apply some security to them
via spring boot security.
Let's run through a few examples
and see how to add access
to more than just the health endpoint.
We're using 0105 begin for this video.
If you have not opened the code base yet, please do so now.
With the code base loaded and open in intelliJ,
we'll open the application dot properties
and just below the management endpoint health,
show details always, going to hit enter,
and we're going to explicitly indicate
which actuator endpoints are available
outside the security model.
We'll do this by typing,
management, endpoints, web, exposure,
include, health info metrics and loggers.
Now you could expose all of these
by changing this to a wild card and using an asterisks
which would display all endpoints.
Okay, let's save that,
go down to our terminal window,
gradle clean build, hit enter
and we'll run the application
with Java dash jar dash dspring profiles dot active
equals broad build libs,
tab over for the application dot jar, hit enter.
Okay, and finally, let's go ahead
and open our browser window.
We'll type HTTP, colon local host,
let's go down here to this one, actuator hit enter.
And now because spring boot actuator will return
these results in JSON,
we need to make it a little easier to read by formatting it.
Now we can do this by installing a Chrome extension
called JSON formatter.
If you're using postman, even better.
I won't show you postman, but for JSON formatter in Chrome,
I've already opened the extensions.
We're going to search for JSON formatter, hit enter.
First option that comes up is the right one.
We'll click add to Chrome and add the extension.
This'll take just a moment.
Okay, add it, go back to our page and let's refresh.
Much better, the actuator endpoint tells us
which web endpoints from our application
are available to us.
Because we explicitly decided to expose,
health info metrics and loggers,
we see that all of these endpoints are available.
Let's look at the metrics, hit enter,
this gives us a whole host of metrics
we can incorporate
into our application monitoring solutions.
This list is basically the metric URLs that we can look at
with our application.
So for example, if we copy Tomcat sessions active current
and paste it at the end of metrics,
we're going to see information
about active current sessions.
And we could look at any number of metrics here.
Let's go ahead and change all this.
From the metrics we will type in info, hit enter.
And currently this displays nothing.
This endpoint is set up to display,
application specific information that we want exposed,
like name, description, author, bio, et cetera.
Let's add some info, information real quick
to our application dot properties.
I'm going to hit enter here, give a tag for info
and I'm going to pace these to save time.
You can add other details as well,
as long as it begins with info dot.
We'll save that,
we'll come down to our terminal, control+C
and I'll tab up for gradle clean build.
By the way, the up arrows on the keyboard
will scroll through the history of commands.
This will make things quicker for you.
Okay, scroll up again, run the application.
Let's go back to our screen
and if we refresh it,
we see the application specific info that we've added.
Now, this is because we've added it
to the default application dot properties.
Remember, any global properties that we want added
are agnostic of the environment,
and these should be added
to our default application dot properties.
Okay, so one last thing,
we're going to review as an example with actuators,
and that is the loggers.
Go back to the browser again,
we will change the info to loggers, hit enter.
As you can see, this tells us the available logging levels
and loggers that are set per package level.
So far we've only been making query calls
with these actuators
but spring boot actuator can also accept input
and this is one of those circumstances,
where we may want to change the logging level on the fly.
To do this, we're going to use the curl command
and make a post statement
for our new configured logging level.
As I understand it
curl dot EXC is also available on windows 10 and newer.
So let's open up a new terminal window
and we're going to type curl dot HTTP, colon slash slash,
local host colon 9,001 actuator slash loggers
and then the package.
Org spring framework, single quotes dash I, dash capital X
post back slash, we'll give a space dash H,
this is for the header of our post.
We're going to specify the content type now.
Content type, the colon application slash JSON single quotes
another back slash, hit enter.
Space again, D and this is where we're going
to specify the package that we're submitting.
So I use curly bracket as it is JSON,
I configured level, double quotes colon, double quotes again
and currently everything is set to info
but we're going to change this package to debug and hit enter.
It gave us a 204, it's good.
Now to prove my point, if we type debug,
we can see it's only listed here
but if I refresh and I do a search again for debug
we see that we've now modified
the actual package level to debug.
Okay, let's go back and change this again.
Back to info, hit enter.
We'll refresh, we'll find
and we're back to normal again.